458 F.2d 895
173 U.S.P.Q. 519

IMPERIAL HOMES CORPORATION, a Florida Corporation, Plaintiff-Appellant,
v.
Michael M. LAMONT and Mrs. Michael M. Lamont, his wife,
Defendants-Appellees.

No. 71-3423 Summary Calendar.[*]

United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit.

April 13, 1972.

John A. Curtiss, of Macfarlane, Ferguson, Allison & Kelly, Tampa,
Fla., for plaintiff-appellant.

Arnold D. Levine, Levine & Freedman, P.A., Tampa, Fla., for defendants-
appellees.

Before BELL, DYER and CLARK, Circuit Judges.

CLARK, Circuit Judge:

In this non-jury copyright infringement action, the district court
concluded that the plaintiff-appellant had abandoned and waived
its copyright rights covering a set of architectural drawings for
a residence by reproducing the floor plan design therefrom in a
sales promotion brochure which was distributed to induce prospective
customers to employ the plaintiff to construct the home.  The district
court pretermitted as unnecessary any finding as to whether the
defendants had copied the floor plan drawing from the brochure in
developing their own set of plans for a duplicative house.  We hold
the court erred in its waiver and abandonment decision and, therefore,
remand this cause with instructions to make the pretermitted finding
and for further proceedings in accordance herewith.

The plaintiff-appellant, Imperial Homes Corporation, is a
merchant-builder engaged in the business of designing, constructing
and selling residential dwellings.  Imperial developed architectural
plans for a residence it named "Chateau".  Long prior to the events
giving rise to this action, Imperial registered a claim for a copyright
on the complete set of architectural drawings for the Chateau home
with the Registrar of Copyrights of the United States of America as a
published work under Class I (Drawings or Plastic Works of a Scientific
or Technical Character).  It subsequently constructed model homes
according to this design and opened them to the public.  In the course
of advertising its business, Imperial prepared and distributed to the
public an advertising brochure which contained only the floor plan
from the complete set of copyrighted architectural drawings.  It duly
noted in the brochure that it claimed a copyright right on the floor
plan, but no effort was made to copyright the advertising brochure.
These brochures were used by Imperial in the ordinary course of its
business to advertise and promote the sale of homes of the Chateau
design, and agents and employees of Imperial gave this brochure to
any person who expressed an interest in having Imperial build this
home for them.  While some minor differences between the copyrighted
drawings and the copy appearing in the brochure are apparent from
the exhibits in evidence before this court, the parties stipulated,
and the lower court found, that the floor plan drawing appearing in
the sales brochure was the subject of a valid United States copyright
owned by Imperial.

The defendants, Mr. and Mrs.  Lamont, became interested in acquiring
a home of the Chateau design.  They visited one of the residences
of this design which had been constructed by Imperial, where they
made detailed observations and measurements.  Copies of the sales
brochure were available to interested prospects who visited this home,
including the Lamonts.  The evidence was conflicting as to whether
the Lamonts obtained a copy of this brochure and as to whether they
copied it in developing their own set of drawings for a duplicative
residential dwelling.  The court resolved the first conflict by finding
that they did obtain a copy of the brochure on one of their visits,
but declined to make any finding as to whether the Lamonts copied the
floor plan in the brochure on the theory that copying this plan would
not constitute a copying of the copyrighted drawings.  The Lamonts were
never shown the complete architectural plans for which a copyright
had been issued and there was no direct or circumstantial evidence
that either Mr. or Mrs.  Lamont had access to Imperial's full set of
copyrighted plans for the "Chateau" model home.  The court found that
they did not copy these plans.

The Lamonts did proceed to develop a set of drawings illustrating
the manner of constructing a residential dwelling, intended to
be substantially similar to Imperial's model home which they had
visited and measured.  They next proceeded to construct this home for
themselves, hiring their own contracting force and purchasing their
own materials.  After the duplicate home was built, Imperial brought
this action against the Lamonts seeking injunctive relief against
further dissemination or use of the allegedly infringing plans,
damages, return of profits and attorneys' fees.

The resolution of two issues controls the disposition of this appeal.
First, did the reproduction of the floor plan from the copyrighted
set of architectural drawings in an advertising brochure waive or
abandon the copyright right? We hold it did not.  Would copying this
reproduction constitute an infringement of the copyright right? We
hold it would.

I.

Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the Constitution confers upon
Congress the power "[t]o promote the Progress of Science and useful
Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the
exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries."
Congress has exercised the prerogative flowing from this fountainhead
of authority by creating a statutory system for the registration and
protection of copyrighted materials, which is contained in Title
17, U.S.C.A.  This national system permits copyright rights to be
secured on "... all the writings of an author." 17 U.S.C.A. Sec. 4.
In Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U.S. 53, 58, 4
S.Ct. 279, 28 L.Ed. 349 (1884), "an author" was defined as "he to
whom anything owes its origin; originator, maker; one who completes a
work of science or literature."  Hence, the architect who originates
a set of blueprints for a dwelling is as much an author for copyright
purposes as the writer who creates an original novel or the dramatist
who pens a new play.  This authorship concept is no more than one facet
of the essence of that which merits copyright protection-originality.
However, while such originality is the test for copyrightability,
it does not extend so far as to require that novelty or invention,
which is the sine qua non for patent protection, be present.
Mazer v. Stein, 347 U.S. 201, 74 S.Ct. 460, 98 L.Ed.  630 (1954).
Also basically germane to the case at bar, Congress has provided that
works classified as "[d]rawings or plastic works of a scientific
or technical character" are copyrightable, 17 U.S.C.A. Sec. 5(i);
and the regulations of the Copyright Office expressly include "an
architect's blueprint" as a work registerable within this class. 37
C.F.R. Sec. 202.12(a).  Finally, every valid copyright vests in its
holder the exclusive prerogative " [t]o print, reprint, publish,
copy, and vend the copyrighted work;". 17 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1(a).

II.

The district court's legal conclusion that the publication of the
floor plan design from its copyrighted drawings in a promotional
brochure waived and abandoned Imperial's statutory copyright rights,
is both novel and erroneous.  A part of the rights which the very first
sentence of the copyright act confers upon a statutory copyright owner
is the right to make and to publish copies of his protected work, 17
U.S.C.A. Sec. 1(a).  It would be illogical to permit the enjoyment
of these expressly accorded privileges to destroy the efficacy of
the whole protection intended.  Indeed, the protected privilege of
enjoying the fruits of public dissemination is a principal reason
for seeking to perfect statutory protection rather than relying on
common law proprietorship.  See 17 U.S.C.A. Sec. 10.

Abandonment can only be shown by proving the copyright proprietor
intended to surrender the rights in a work he so deliberately
perfected.  Rather than the publication of the instant booklet
evincing abandonment, the opposite intention is disclosed, because in
the brochure Imperial expressly claimed that the floor plan design
was the subject of a copyright.  National Comics Publications,
Inc.  v. Fawcett Publications, Inc., 191 F.2d 594 (2d Cir. 1951).
See also Rushton v.  Vitale, 218 F.2d 434 (2d Cir. 1955), and Nimmer
on Copyrights, Sec. 146. Cf.  Deward & Rich v. Bristol Savings &
Loan Corp., 120 F.2d 537 (4th Cir. 1941).

III.

The claim made on this appeal goes deep-to the very heart of the
right accorded to architectural plans by a statutory copyright.
Relying upon Baker v. Selden, 101 U.S. 99, 25 L.Ed. 841 (1879), and
Scholz Homes, Inc. v. Maddox, 379 F.2d 84 (6th Cir. 1967), the Lamonts
assert that no protectable right was conferred by Imperial's copyright
of its architectural plans which survived its exercise of the exclusive
statutory prerogative to make and publish copies of portions of these
plans to promote the sale of the house they described.  At a minimum,
the Lamonts say that there was no infringement if they copied only
the floor plan from the advertising booklet.

The 1879 doctrine of Baker v. Selden, supra, has created considerable
problems in determining the protection to be accorded many works in the
Sec. 5(i) class, subsequently added to the copyright statutes by the
act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1076.  In that case, Selden obtained
a copyright on a book explaining a new system of bookkeeping, which
included blank forms with ruled lines and headings which had been
designed for use in connection with the new system.  Baker issued
a book containing some slightly different forms which achieved
the same result taught by Selden.  In a decision which sought to
draw a strict differentiation between patent monopoly rights and
copyright protection, the Supreme Court held Baker had not infringed.
The opinion stated:

"... the rules and methods of useful art have their final end in
application and use; and this application and use are what the public
derive from the publication of a book which teaches them.  But as
embodied and taught in a literary composition or book, their essence
consists only in their statement.  This alone is what is secured by
the copyright.  The use by another of the same methods of statement,
whether in words or illustrations, in a book published for teaching
the art, would undoubtedly be an infringement of the copyright."

In terms of an architectural drawing, the Baker v. Selden rationale
would assert that no architect who copyrights his blueprints could
thereby acquire a monopoly on the right to build a house with 2 x 4s or
with a pitched roof or with a slab foundation or any other particular
feature, no matter how unique.  The court was concerned that copyright
privileges might result in vesting exclusive use rights which only a
patent could confer.  We therefore interpret this decision as holding
that a descriptive copyright may not extend an exclusive right to the
use of the described art itself lest originality of description should
preempt non-novel invention.  Thus, no copyrighted architectural plans
under Sec. 5(i) may clothe their author with the exclusive right to
reproduce the dwelling pictured.  However, nothing in Baker v. Selden
prevents such a copyright from vesting the law's grant of an exclusive
right to make copies of the copyrighted plans so as to instruct a
would-be builder on how to proceed to construct the dwelling pictured.

In Scholz Homes, Inc. v. Maddox, supra, the Sixth Circuit decided
a case almost identical to the case at bar.  There, the floor plan
portion of copyrighted architectural plans for residential dwellings
were reproduced in a booklet which was separately copyrighted.
Scholz Homes sued Maddox for infringing their copyrighted plans.
The trial court denied relief.  The Court of Appeals pointed out that
Scholz had produced no evidence which would permit the inference
that Maddox had utilized Scholz's copyrighted plans as such.
Without deciding whether the defendant had copied the floor plan
depicted in the copyrighted booklet, the court was willing to assume
that this had been done.  It affirmed the holding of nonliability.
Based upon its interpretation and application of Baker v. Selden,
it held that since the booklet had been copyrighted only to preserve
its value as an advertising medium and not to give Scholz Homes the
exclusive right to copy the plans depicted therein, any copying of the
floor plan from the booklet would not constitute an infringement of
the booklet or plaintiff's basic copyright on architectural drawings.
With deference to our brethren of the Sixth Circuit, we simply do
not read the ambit of statutory copyright protection for such a case
so narrowly.

No one can defend the appropriation of portions of an original
copyrighted work by arguing that the author published such extracts
to promote the value and desirability of his copyrighted product
and that only these extracts have been pirated.  This is neither in
accord with the letter of the law, see, 17 U.S.C.A.  Sec. 3, nor with
the spirit of the economic philosophy ascribed to the constitutional
and statutory protection accorded copyrights which finds its basis
in the conviction that encouragement of individual effort by personal
gain is the best way to advance public welfare through the talents of
authors, by assuring that sacrificial days devoted to such creative
activities receive rewards commensurate with the services rendered.
Mazer v. Stein, supra.  The exclusive right to copy what is copyrighted
belongs to the architect, even though the plans give him no unique
claim on any feature of the structure they detail.  If it is determined
upon remand that the Lamonts copied the floor plan set forth in the
promotional booklet distributed by Imperial, then this copying would
constitute an infringement of Imperial's copyright privileges.

IV.

Two caveats are appropriate.  First, we do not hold that the Lamonts
were in anywise restricted by the existence of Imperial's copyright
from reproducing a substantially identical residential dwelling.
All we hold is that if copyrighted architectural drawings of the
originator of such plans are imitated or transcribed in whole or in
part, infringement occurs.  Second, we intimate no view whatsoever
as to whether the Lamonts' floor plan is substantially similar to
the brochure floor plan and, if so, whether the Lamonts copied from
the brochure.

Reversed and remanded, with directions.

[*]: Rule 18, 5th Cir.; see Isbell Enterprises, Inc. v. Citizens
Casualty Co. of N.  Y., 431 F.2d 409, Part I (5th Cir. 1970)
