United States District Court, N.D. Illinois, E.D.

694 F. Supp. 483 (N.D. Ill. 1988)

JESSE L. JACKSON, PLAINTIFF,
V.
MPI HOME VIDEO, MALJACK PRODUCTIONS, INC., AND FUSION VIDEO, DEFENDANTS.

MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER

ZAGEL, District Judge.

I Findings of Fact

Stipulated Facts

These stipulations were entered into for purposes of the Preliminary
Injunction Hearing.

Plaintiff Jesse L. Jackson ("Jackson") is a resident of Chicago,
Illinois, and Defendant Maljack Productions, Inc. ("Maljack") is an
Illinois corporation also doing business as MPI Home Video with its
principal place of business in Oak Forest, Illinois.

The Democratic National Committee believes that Jackson is a major
spokesman for the party.  He delivered an address on July 19, 1988 at
the 1988 Democratic National Convention, held in Atlanta, Georgia,
on July 18-21, 1988.  He wrote the speech himself in his hotel room
on July 19, the day of its delivery.

The address was carried live by four television networks, A.B.C.,
N.B.C., C.B.S. and C.N.N., as part of their scheduled prime time
coverage of the Democratic National Convention.  Over 2,000 news
organizations attended the convention.  Copies of the address
(Exhibit 1 without Jackson's handwritten additions) were provided to
the press at the convention prior to its delivery on July 19, 1988.
Between 100 and 150 copies of the address which were distributed
to the press and the Democratic National Committee did not contain
a copyright notification but did contain the following statement:
"NOT FOR PUBLIC USE UNTIL DELIVERED."

On July 25, 1988, Maljack purchased from Sherman Grinberg Film
Libraries, Inc., New York, New York, a license to use the A.B.C. news
archive tape of Jackson's convention speech.  Maljack paid $6,750.00
for the license.  Shortly thereafter defendants began marketing a
tape for home video use containing the complete A.B.C. news coverage
of the convention speech given by Jackson.

The packaging of defendants' videotape displays among other items
(1) a photograph of Jackson and his name, (2) two quotations from
the speech, (3) a description of the tape as containing the "entire
stirring Democratic National Convention speech, uncut and unedited"
and (4) the name of MPI Home Video.

During the period from July 25-27, 1988 Waleed Ali, the President
of Maljack, was interviewed on television news programs in Chicago.
As part of the news story, the programs showed MPI Tape package and
also showed excerpts of the plaintiff's convention speech.

The Democratic National Committee received a copy of Jackson's speech
from Jackson's campaign headquarters which copy lacked a copyright
notice.  The Democratic National Committee received copies of speeches
given by other speakers at the convention.  Not a single copy received
from any speaker bore a copyright notice.  The Democratic National
Committee has received numerous requests from political groups and news
media around the country for video tape copies of Jackson's speech.
Copies of those speeches have been distributed without copyright
notice.  So too Democratic National Committee has distributed copies
of the speech received from Jackson's campaign headquarters.

The Democratic National Committee received $9.22 million from the
federal government for the convention.

An application for copyright in the speech was filed with the Register
of Copyrights on July 28, 1988.

Further Findings of Fact

Maljack's Ali heard Jackson's speech as it was being broadcast and,
before it was over, formed an opinion that it would sell.  He caused
a license to be purchased from Grinberg Film Libraries which sent a
master copy of the A.B.C. coverage of the Jackson speech and secured
a photo of Jackson from Wide World Photos to be used on the videotape
package or sleeve.  Commercials and other extraneous materials were
edited from the A.B.C. master, and packaging artwork was prepared.
About eight thousand tapes and sleeves were prepared.  Prior to
the act of this Court restraining distribution, about 7,100 units
(tapes in sleeves) were shipped and about 1,000 remain with Maljack.
Ali believed he could ship at least 25,000 units and, at most,
50,000 units.  The list price of a unit is $14.95, Maljack sells
it to its wholesalers and others for about $7.50.  Maljack's profit
is about $3.00 a unit.  Maljack publicized release of the tape with
announcements to general newspapers and the trade press.

Maljack had prior dealings with Grinberg Film libraries because it
distributes some A.B.C. video cassettes and other material secured
from the library.  Indeed, Maljack sought a lower price for the
Jackson speech since in a previous transaction Maljack paid a large
fee for material that had poor sales.  Maljack's catalogue is wide
ranging including feature films, concert films, film classics,
television series, and children's features.  There are cassettes
explaining public issues.  These include works on political figures,
the Vietnam conflict, World War II, the various branches of the United
States armed forces, the 1960's, the exploration of space, and a
series of one-hour presentations of the speeches of King, Roosevelt,
Churchill, Eisenhower and Kennedy.  Ali credibly testified that he
had distributed at least one film because he believed it contained
an important message on poverty in America though he expected little
or no profit.  The catalogue also lists films whose titles suggest
a more esoteric appeal.

The license contract received from Grinberg contained in capital
letters the legend:

LICENSED FOR:

VCS .......... HOME VIDEO CASSETTES * * * * * * * * * * * * *
* * * * * * SRC ROLL KEY SCENE NO. NUMBERS DESCRIPTION --- ----
-------------------- 01 ABC JESSE JACKSON CONVENTION SPEECH

In smaller letters near the bottom of the contract it was written:
"The film footage licensed hereunder may be used only for the purpose
specified ... [T]he Licensor warrants nothing except its title to the
footage licensed and that the licensee assumes full responsibility
for any use which it may make of such footage."

The Wide World Photos, Inc. sales form states in large letters:

PHOTOS: JESSE JACKSON JFK FOR USE ON HOME VIDEO/JACKET FOR RETAIL

Toward the bottom of the form, in small letters, it is written of
the picture sold:

"It may not be used in such a manner as to violate the rights of any
person, firm or corporation.  It may not be used for advertising
or purposes of trade unless written consent of each living person
depicted ... shall be obtained ..."

The intended meaning of the Grinberg contract is subject to dispute.
A.B.C. licenses Grinberg to license others.  A.B.C. may withhold
whatever it wishes, but unless it specifically restricts use,
Grinberg may license whatever A.B.C. gives them.  The written agreement
between them provides that Grinberg "shall have the right ... to make
duplicates of A.B.C. film/cassettes and license said duplicates to
third parties for stock footage purposes."  In a deposition taken
after the filing of this lawsuit and after discussions about the
issue with an A.B.C. lawyer, Chertok, who runs Grinberg, said that
he had never told Maljack that there were any limitations on the use
of the tape.  Chertok then testified "All we had done was license
a physical copy of some A.B.C. news coverage to Mr. Ali's company.
We had not given him any rights to the content."  This may be Chertok's
sincere belief today, but as a statement of what the parties believed
at the time of the transaction, it appears incredible.  Absent some
license to the content, the transaction was the right to use a copy
of A.B.C. footage for over $6,000, an unaccountably high price for a
single video cassette and a marked departure from their prior dealing.

Under the circumstances here it is clear that Maljack thought it
bought and Grinberg thought it sold a valid license to duplicate and
sell copies of the A.B.C. tape.

Ali testified that were a royalty to be paid on a tape such as this
one it would be 50 to 75 cents a unit with an outer limit of one
dollar.  He noted that a tape including Jackson's 1984 speech at the
Democratic National Convention sold about 4,000 units.  Jackson stated
in testimony that in 1984 he had authorized the distribution of such
a tape for which he had received compensation.

The Democratic National Committee claims no copyright for the
nominating convention.  There are no agreements with the media covering
the event that allocate rights with respect to the use of films or
reports of the speeches and other occurrences at the convention.
The Committee has no role in the accreditation of news correspondents
to the convention (save for minor exceptions not relevant here).
Its only agreements with A.B.C. dealt with physical locations and
accommodations at the convention.  Advance texts of speeches, which are
in common use for news media at the convention, are not copyrighted.
The Jackson speech was originally given in the form of a computer
disc to the Committee press office before the speech; the Jackson
staff wanted quick distribution and gave no direction as to whom
copies might be given.

The Committee distributes very little copyrighted material, but
material prepared for it by outside organizations is sometimes
copyrighted as was the Committee's own convention book.  The Democratic
National Committee had no policy regarding the issues presented by
this case, but its director of communications said such a policy is
needed and will be adopted.

The Democratic National Committee considers its conventions to be
public events of political and historical significance.  It sends out
copies of speeches to news persons and others requesting them, and has
sent out copies of Jackson's speech and is still doing so.  It also
has tapes of the convention and intended to prepare and distribute
a highlights film.  This project is delayed pending the outcome
of this case.  So, too, the Committee has not distributed tapes of
Jackson's speech in response to requests for them from the news media.

Jackson testified that the "essence" of his speech was "news" occurring
at an "historical event."  He imposed no restrictions on its use
by the news media including some which printed all of the speech.
He desired the speech to receive the widest possible audience.
He has not objected in the past to the use of his photograph on the
cover of news magazines.

After the speech was delivered at the convention various copies,
all without copyright notification, were issued.  Many of these were
issued by the plaintiff's own national campaign office.  A paid
receptionist there distributed a hundred and fifty copies without
copyright notification and did so at a time (July 25-28) when it
was clear plaintiff intended to seek formal copyright protection.
She had, in fact, been asked by plaintiff's attorney whether the
speech did have copyright notification, and she replied that it did.
In fact she mistook the small union printer label for a copyright
notification, and neither any plaintiff's attorney nor any campaign
official sought to verify her assertions about copyright notice.
For some period of time she was not even made aware of plaintiff's
objections to the defendant's tape --- she referred callers seeking the
tape to defendants.  Much the same problem occurred at the Democratic
National Committee.  One of the plaintiff's attorneys requested on July
26 or 27 that the Committee cease distribution of Jackson's speech
without copyright notification.  It can be safely inferred that this
request was not honored.  Plaintiff's attorney repeated the request
and was told that the Committee was aware of the problem and that it
would stop --- this conversation occurred on August 8.

It is agreed that no effort was made to recover the copies distributed
without notification or to notify their recipients of the existence
of copyright.  Nor were computer discs containing the speech altered
to add the copyright notification.

Shortly before or shortly after Maljack began distribution of the
tape Jackson became aware of its project and stated, publicly, his
objection to the project.  In television interviews Ali made statements
in response to Jackson's protests.  The substance of his remarks was
(1) Jackson did not authorize the tape because Ali did not ask him
to do so, (2) Jackson was not involved in any aspect of the project,
and (3) it was permissible for Maljack to profit from the words of
a public figure.

Analysis and Conclusions of Law The Court, on a motion for preliminary
injunction should grant the motion when plaintiff has shown (1)
a better than negligible probability of success on the merits, (2)
irreparable injury, (3) lack of serious adverse effect on defendants,
and (4) the injunction is not inconsistent with public interest.
A.J. Canfield v. Vess, 796 F.2d 903, 906 (7th Cir. 1986).

The most difficult question in this case is the probability of success
on the merits, and it will be discussed last.  Analysis of the other
three aspects assumes, arguendo that plaintiff has a valid copyright
and the use of his photograph on the videotape package has a tendency
to deceive the public into believing he sponsors or is associated
with defendant's enterprise.

I reject here as I did at the hearing on the temporary restraining
order the claim that plaintiff is damaged by association with other
tapes in the defendant's catalogue.  There is no reasonable inference
of any danger the public associates with each other the products of
a single videotape distributor.

II Irreparable Injury

Irreparable injury "may normally be presumed from a showing of
copyright infringement."  Atari, Inc. v. North American Philips
Consumer Electronics Corp., 672 F.2d 607, 620 (7th Cir. 1982).
The market for plaintiff's own product is diminished and perhaps
foreclosed by an infringing tape.  The existence of an unauthorized
tape may not simply reduce the sales of an authorized tape in direct
proportion to its own sales; it may, if enmeshed in controversy,
reduce the total number of sales for any tape by deterring buyers
unwilling to purchase the unauthorized tape and uncertain of which tape
is authorized.  In this respect money damages may not be adequately
determinable.  For purposes of the Lanham Act, the existence of a
tendency to deceive (by virtue of the design of the tape package) is
sufficient to show irreparable injury.  Black Hills Jewelry v. Gold
Rush, Inc., 633 F.2d 746, 753 (8th Cir. 1980).

III Adverse Effect on Defendants

The adverse effect on the defendants of a preliminary injunction
is speculative.  There is no evidence as to the time span of the
market for their videos although it is reasonable to assume that the
end of the 1988 presidential election campaign may signal the end of
the market for the tape.  The decision on the question of the final
injunction will be reached within three or four weeks, well short of
that date.  In any event defendants have not shown that sales will
be reduced by a short additional delay in their distribution.

IV Consistency with the Public Interest

Protection of copyright and prevention of practices which have a
tendency to deceive are clearly consistent with the public interest in
the creation of other original works fostered by copyright protection
and in the avoidance of deception of the public.  Moreover, failure
to protect copyright (by denying the preliminary injunction) is
inconsistent with the public interest.

Defendants argue that an injunction is inconsistent with the public
interest because the principle on which it must rest, i.e., copyright
in campaign speeches, will create enormous problems for news reporting
of political events.  The argument rests on speculation.  The problems
in this case may well have been avoided had the copyright implications
been considered in advance as the testimony now indicates they are
being considered.  The possible resolutions of such problems are
quite varied.  Among other possibilities, Congress could amend the
copyright law removing protection from candidate speeches or setting
specific royalties, and party committees could require speakers to
waive copyright in order to gain the podium.  Media could negotiate
royalty arrangements with political candidates as they do with
other individuals (and the media do not lack bargaining power),
or the whole problem could be ignored on the assumption that very
few persons would ever have the desire or the occasion to assert
copyright to stop reproduction of political speeches.  And, of course,
the fair use doctrine sanctions for purposes of "criticism, comment,
news reporting, teaching ... scholarship or research" the use of a
reasonable amount of copyrighted material. 17 U.S.C. s. 107.

V

All of what was just said depends quite clearly on the validity of the
copyright and deception claims of plaintiff, or on his ability to show
he has a better than negligible probability of success on their merits.

A

The defendants argue that their videotape is protected by the
First Amendment.  There is no direct support for this claim.  Time,
Inc. v. Bernard Geis, 293 F. Supp. 130 (S.D.N Y 1968) does not rest
upon the First Amendment.  To the extent it rests upon the idea that
copyright must yield where "there is a public interest in having the
fullest information available in the murder of President Kennedy",
it is probably inconsistent with Harper Row v. Nation Enterprises,
471 U.S. 539, 105 S.Ct. 2218, 85 L.Ed.2d 588 (1985).  There the
respondents sought to diminish copyright protection because of
the "substantial public import of the subject matter" of the Ford
memoirs (on the pardon of former President Nixon), 471 U.S. at 556,
105 S.Ct. at 2228.  The Court said, in response, "It is fundamentally
at odds with the scheme of copyright to accord lesser rights in those
works that are of greatest importance to the public." 471 U.S. at 579,
105 S.Ct. at 2240.  This language is fatal to the defendants' First
Amendment argument.  The distinction between the "words" involved
in Harper Row and the "news photo" exception advocated by Professor
Melville Nimmer (1 Nimmer on Copyright 1.10[C]) is one not recognized
by the Copyright Act which allows in equal measure the protection of
words and pictures. 17 U.S.C. s. 102(a)(1), (5), (6).  In any event,
Nimmer's suggested examples of what would lose copyright protection
because they fit under a "news photo" exception --- photographs of
My Lai massacre and the John Kennedy assassination --- do not seem
to be comparable in degree or quality to a film of a candidate for
public office giving a speech.  See Nimmer on Copyright 1.10[C].  And,
of course, defendants seek to use both the picture and the words.
Defendants use Nimmer's suggestion that copyright is lost when,
for example, "a public official's scathing denunciation of a rival
--- replete with obscenities or social epithets --- would have to
be reproduced verbatim in order to fully apprise the public of its
content ..."  Nimmer on Copyright 1.10[D].  This observation is simply
inapposite to the speech here.  Finally, there is, on the basis of
the evidence more than a negligible probability that plaintiff can
show he earns part of his living by being paid for his oratory --- as
he has been in the past --- and this may invoke the rule in Zacchini
v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co., 433 U.S. 562, 97 S.Ct. 2849,
53 L.Ed.2d 965 (1977) which found no First Amendment protection for
a news film embodying Zacchini's "entire act."

B

The defendant says that his videotapes are within the fair use
provision of the copyright laws. 17 U.S.C. s. 107.  There is more
than a negligible probability they are not.  The statute sets out
four factors to be considered.

(1) The purpose and character of the use, including whether such use
is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes.

The evidence supports the defendants' contention that their purpose
was news reporting for profit.  The plaintiff's argument against this
is weak.  Reports of events of past weeks or months, even if previously
reported, are yet news.  News reporting is a proper purpose under the
fair use of doctrine.  Diamond v. Am-Law Publishing Corp., 745 F.2d
142, 147 (2nd Cir. 1984).  Selling the news report does not defeat
fair use.  Consumers Union v. General Signal Corp., 724 F.2d 1044,
1049 (2nd Cir. 1983); Compare Pacific and Southern Co. v. Duncan,
744 F.2d 1490, 1496 (11th Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 471 U.S. 1004,
105 S.Ct. 1867, 85 L.Ed.2d 161 (1985).  And old news may still be news.
Harper Row v. Nation Enterprises, 471 U.S. at 561, 105 S.Ct. at 2230.
The aggravating elements in Harper Row were that the user knew
the material was copyrighted, knew it came into it by theft and
used it deliberately to supplant the right of first publication.
These elements are not shown to be present here.

(2) The nature of the copyrighted work.

The plaintiff's work is an original literary work, a speech,
an extended piece of oratory.  While plaintiff's right to first
publication was preserved and executed this fact is of little
aid to defendants.  The Supreme Court noted, of a speech that had
been delivered to the public, that "even substantial quotations
might qualify as fair use."  Harper Row v. Nation Enterprises, 471
U.S. at 564, 105 S.Ct. at 2232.  The defendant did far more than use
substantial quotations.  While the right of first publication is a
very important right it is not the be all and end all of copyright
protection.

Plaintiff's copyright application included the speech in the form
it was first released to members of the press.  That copyright
includes the exclusive right "to prepare derivative works based
upon the copyrighted work;" (17 U.S.C. s. 106(2)) and "in the case
of literary ... works to perform the copyrighted work publicly" (
17 U.S.C. s. 106(4)) and "to display the copyrighted work publicly"
(17 U.S.C. s. 106(5)).  The speech at the convention was a derivative
work and it may well also constitute a performance or display.

(3) The amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to
the copyrighted work as a whole.

Here the analysis is quite simple.  Defendants used all of one of the
derivative works protected under the copyright.  Harper Row v. Nation
Enterprises, 471 U.S. at 568, 105 S.Ct. at 2234.  The only example of
fair use of an entire work cited by defendants was utterly dependent
on the fact the use was noncommercial.  Sony Corp. v. Universal City
Studios, 464 U.S. 417, 449-50, 104 S.Ct. 774, 792-93, 78 L.Ed.2d 574
(1984).

(4) The effect of the use upon the potential market for a value of
the copyrighted work.

The defendants do not dispute that the market for plaintiff's
copyrighted work is adversely affected by their tape.  Yet they
say it is of no moment because plaintiff has no tapes, packaging
or distribution --- nothing to indicate he will ever go to market.
The language of the statute describing this factor (which is the
"single most important element of fair use", Harper Row v. Nation
Enterprises, 471 U.S. at 568, 105 S.Ct. at 2234), does not seem to
require either an intent or plan to market; it speaks of "potential"
markets.  Pacific and Southern Co. v. Duncan, 744 F.2d 1490, 1496 (11th
Cir. 1984).  Nevertheless plaintiff has said he has intended to market
his copyrighted work, and the fact that he has yet to take concrete
steps to do so seems insignificant today, less than four weeks after
the speech was given.  In Rosemont Enterprises, Inc. v. Random House,
Inc., 366 F.2d 303 (2nd Cir. 1966) the copyrighted material was over
ten years old when injunction against its infringement was sought.
The procedural posture of the case (which sought to use a copyright
claim to achieve a remedy already sought on other grounds in state
court) was unusual and the court had evident doubt that the plaintiff's
proposed authorized biography of Howard Hughes would ever be written (
303 F.2d at 305, 311).  Indeed two of the three judges believed there
was "a scheme developed by Hughes and his attorney and employees
to prevent the publication of any biography of Hughes." 303 F.2d
at 311-12.  Rosemont Enterprises teaches nothing of value to this
case as it now stands.

The analysis of all four factors shows that all but one cut against the
fair use doctrine, including the most important factor.  On balance
the fair use doctrine seems, in all likelihood, inapplicable to
defendants' use.

C

Plaintiff's copyright is attacked on grounds that it has been
abandoned.  "Abandonment of a copyright occurs if the owner intends
to give up his copyright protection.  Some overt act is necessary
to evidence such an intent ... mere inaction is not enough.
The presence of a notice is strong evidence of an intent not to
abandon ... A limited distribution, even if not widespread enough to
effect a forfeiture, can, coupled with the requisite intent, cause an
abandonment."  Bell v. Combined Registry Company, 397 F. Supp. 1241,
1249 (N.D.Ill. 1975) (citations omitted), aff'd, 536 F.2d 164 (7th
Cir. 1976).  See generally 3 Nimmer on Copyright Sec. 13.06 (1988).

It is possible that defendants might prevail on this issue, but it
is more probable that they will not.  There is no direct evidence
of an intent to abandon, and the inaction of plaintiff over a
period of no more, and perhaps less, than ten days is too slight to
establish abandonment.  Failure for the short time here to seek to
register copyright really is "mere inaction" which "is not enough."
The desire to seek widespread dissemination of the speech is not in
the slightest sense inconsistent with intent to maintain a copyright
--- it is, in fact, the usual goal of an author with a copyright.

D

The next challenge to the copyright is the claim of forfeiture through
publication without copyright notice.  It is grounded on the fact a
few hundred copies of the speech without copyright notification were
distributed and given special force by the fact that the plaintiff's
national campaign office receptionist did a good deal of the
distributing.  The Copyright Act addresses this problem.  It provides
first that failure to notify does not invalidate the copyright if the
notice has been omitted from no more than a relatively small number
of copies. 17 U.S.C. s. 405(a)(1).  The evidence and existing law
does not give clear guidance to decision.  The plaintiff does have
a more than negligible probability of prevailing in an attempt to
invoke s. 405(a)(1).

More importantly, plaintiff has a reasonable probability of prevailing
on the invocation of s. 405(a)(2) which saves a copyright where
"a reasonable effort is made to add notice to all copies that are
distributed to the public ... after the omission has been discovered."
There is law to the effect that this rule applies only to continuous
production of identical products, (Eastern Publishing and Advertising,
Inc. v. Chesapeake Publishing and Advertising, Inc., 831 F.2d 488,
491 (4th Cir. 1987)), but the statute contains no such limitation and
there are cases which do not apply the limitation.  Werlin v. Reader's
Digest Ass'n, 528 F. Supp. 451 (S.D.N.Y. 1981); See Hagendorf v. Brown,
707 F.2d 1018 (9th Cir. 1983).  The less than perfect efforts of the
plaintiff to add the required notice to copies of the speech seem
likely to be found reasonable.  The failure to attempt to recover
and mark prior copies in the hands of others is consistent with the
statute.  Hasbro Bradley, Inc. v. Sparkle Toys, Inc., 780 F.2d 189,
195-97 (2d Cir. 1985); E. Mishan v. Marycana, Inc., 662 F. Supp. 1339,
1343 (S.D.N.Y. 1987).

Plaintiff apparently cannot rely upon s. 405(a)(3) to excuse the
actions of the Democratic National Committee in failing to add the
copyright notification to its copies of the speech because its demand
to the Committee was not in writing.  Section 405(a)(3) excuses the
lack of notification when it occurs in violation of the copyright
holder's written requirement that it be included.

E

The final offering of defendants is that, if there is a copyright and
plaintiff holds it, they are innocent infringers and so no injunction
should issue.  Rather there should be a compulsory royalty ordered paid
by them to plaintiff. 17 U.S.C. s. 405(b) states, in pertinent part:

Defendants originally argued that the plaintiff's receipt of
federal funds precluded copyright of his speech on 17 U.S.C. s. 105.
This position is not argued in the latest brief and appears untenable.
See Schnapper v. Foley, 667 F.2d 102 (D.C. Cir. 1981).

Any person who innocently infringes a copyright, in reliance upon
an authorized copy ... from which the copyright notice has been
omitted, incurs no liability for actual or statutory damages ... for
any infringing acts committed before receiving actual notice that
registration for the work has been made ... if such person proves
he ... was misled by the omission of notice.  In ... such a case the
court ... may enjoin the continuation of the infringing undertaking
or may require as a condition for permitting the continuation of the
infringing undertaking, that the infringer pay the copyright owner
a Page 492 reasonable license fee ... fixed by the court.

The defendants have at trial a good chance to show they are innocent
infringers.  No copy of the speech they saw (all apparently on
film) contained a copyright notification.  They received what they
reasonably believed to be a license to copy and sell Jackson's speech.
They invested money and time in their project to market the speech.
On the other hand, the responses of the defendants to Jackson's
protests may well evince an attitude of callous disregard toward
Jackson's copyright.  Nor can the Court determine how great are
the defendants' expenditures, what right they have to recoup some
of them and how substantial a burden their expenses are to them.
In light of the purpose of the provisions of s. 405(b), i.e., to
give the courts broad discretion to balance the equities within the
framework of section 405 (Beacon Looms, Inc. v. S. Lichtenberg Co.,
552 F. Supp. 1305, 1314 (S.D.N Y 1982)), I find that the plaintiff
has a greater than negligible chance of gaining injunctive relief
rather than a compulsory royalty.

VI

A

The plaintiff's claim to the right of publicity is problematic.
It is based upon the plaintiff's right to use his own name and
likeness for his own benefit, and this right is violated when one,
without leave, uses it for his benefit and not the plaintiff's.
Winterland Concession Co. v. Sileo, 528 F. Supp. 1201 (N.D.Ill. 1981),
aff'd in part, and rev'd in part on other grounds, 735 F.2d 257
(7th Cir. 1984).  Public figures possess this right with respect
to commercial use of their names and likeness.  Estate of Presley
v. Russen, 513 F. Supp. 1339 (D.N.J. 1981).  But public figures
do not retain the right of publicity against the use of name and
likeness in the news media.  Rosemont Enterprises v. Random House,
Inc., 58 Misc.2d 1, 294 N.Y.S.2d 122, 129 (1968) aff'd 32 A.D.2d 892,
301 N.Y.S.2d 948 (1st Dept. 1969).  In more concrete terms the right
to publicity would not permit plaintiff to challenge the use of his
picture on the cover of Time or Newsweek. 1In light of the fact that
the evidence appears to support defendants' claim that they were
engaged in news reporting the chances of success on the right to
publicity claim appear less than negligible.

B

A better theory for plaintiff is that Section 43(a) of the Lanham
Act (15 U.S.C. s. 1125(a)) has been violated by the false implied
representation that he has authorized or approved defendants' tape.
Defendants' reply that no reasonable person could conclude that
plaintiff sponsored defendants' cassettes simply because his picture is
on the box.  The use of the plaintiff's name and likeness on the tape
package may not be quite as clearly an implied endorsement as occurred
in Geisel v. Poynter Products, Inc., 283 F. Supp. 261 (S.D.N.Y. 1968)
("Dr. Suess") and may be more of an implied endorsement than in
Allen v. National Video, Inc., 610 F. Supp. 612 (S.D.N.Y. 1985)
(Woody Allen).  This Court has examined the tape package and finds
that its appearance is more than sufficient to create the likelihood
that confusion will occur: the public may well believe the tapes were
approved or produced by plaintiff.  The manner in which his name and
picture are printed, the layout and the other material on the package
are convincing on this point.  In fact, there is evidence of confusion
not only from members of the public who called plaintiff's campaign
office wishing to secure the tape, but also from the receptionist
at the campaign office who apparently believed plaintiff approved
the tape.  The main thrust of this argument is that the remedy is
not injunction but disclaimer.  No proposed disclaimer was offered
in evidence.  But an appropriate form of disclaimer would be an
adequate remedy and once approved by this Court would obviate the
need for injunctive relief insofar as the Lanham Act is concerned.
Consumers Union of U.S. v. General Signal Corp., 724 F.2d 1044, 1053
(2d Cir. 1983).

For the reasons stated above a preliminary injunction shall issue
upon the same terms and conditions as the temporary restraining order
except that the bond to be posted by plaintiff shall be increased to
the amount of $25,000.  A draft Injunction Order shall be prepared by
plaintiff and shall refer to these Findings of Fact and Conclusions
of Law.  Hearing on the Permanent Injunction shall be scheduled for
August 30, 1988.
