154 F.3d 1107
1998 Copr.L.Dec. P 27,820, 48 U.S.P.Q.2d 1026,
98 Cal. Daily Op. Serv. 7130,
98 Daily Journal D.A.R. 9859

MICRO STAR, Plaintiff-Appellant,
v.
FORMGEN INC., a corporation; GT Interactive Software Corp.;
3D Realms Entertainment, aka 3D Realms
Entertainment; DOES, 1 through 100,
inclusive., Defendants-Appellees.
MICRO STAR, Plaintiff-Appellant/Cross-Appellee,
v.
FORMGEN INC., a corporation; GT Interactive Software Corp.;
3D Realms Entertainment, aka 3D Realms
Entertainment; Does, 1 through 100,
inclusive., Defendants-Appellees/Cross-Appellants.

Nos. 96-56426, 96-56433.

United States Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit.

Argued and Submitted Nov. 4, 1997.

Decided Sept. 11, 1998.

Philip H. Stillman, Flynn, Sheridan, Tabb & Stillman, San Diego, CA, for
plaintiff-appellant/cross-appellee.

Michael S. Oberman, Kramer, Levin, Naftalis & Frankel, New York City, for
defendants-appellees/cross-appellants.

Mark E. Nebergall, Mark Traphagen, Software Publishers Association, Washington,
DC, for defendants-appellees/cross-appellants.

Gail E. Markels, Interactive Digital Software Association, New York City, for
defendants-appellees/cross-appellants.

Appeal from the United States District Court for the Southern District of
California Marilyn L. Huff, District Judge, Presiding. D.C. No. CV-96-03435-
MLH.

Before: KOZINSKI, THOMPSON* and TROTT, Circuit Judges.

KOZINSKI, Circuit Judge.


Duke Nukem routinely vanquishes Octabrain and the Protozoid Slimer.  But what
about the dreaded Micro Star?

* FormGen Inc., GT Interactive Software Corp. and Apogee Software, Ltd.
(collectively FormGen) made, distributed and own the rights to Duke
Nukem 3D (D/N-3D), an immensely popular (and very cool) computer game.
D/N-3D is played from the first-person perspective; the player assumes
the personality and point of view of the title character, who is seen
on the screen only as a pair of hands and an occasional boot, much as
one might see oneself in real life without the aid of a mirror.[1]
Players explore a futuristic city infested with evil aliens and
other hazards.  The goal is to zap them before they zap you, while
searching for the hidden passage to the next level.  The basic game
comes with twenty-nine levels, each with a different combination of
scenery, aliens, and other challenges.  The game also includes a "Build
Editor," a utility that enables players to create their own levels.
With FormGen's encouragement, players frequently post levels they have
created on the Internet where others can download them.  Micro Star,
a computer software distributor, did just that: It downloaded 300
user-created levels and stamped them onto a CD, which it then sold
commercially as Nuke It (N/I).  N/I is packaged in a box decorated
with numerous "screen shots," pictures of what the new levels look
like when played.

Micro Star filed suit in district court, seeking a declaratory
judgment that N/I did not infringe on any of FormGen's copyrights.
FormGen counterclaimed, seeking a preliminary injunction barring
further production and distribution of N/I.  Relying on Lewis Galoob
Toys, Inc. v. Nintendo of Am., Inc., 964 F.2d 965 (9th Cir.1992), the
district court held that N/I was not a derivative work and therefore
did not infringe FormGen's copyright.  The district court did, however,
grant a preliminary injunction as to the screen shots, finding that N/
I's packaging violated FormGen's copyright by reproducing pictures
of D/N-3D characters without a license.  The court rejected Micro
Star's fair use claims.  Both sides appeal their losses.

II

A party seeking a preliminary injunction must show "either a likelihood
of success on the merits and the possibility of irreparable injury,
or that serious questions going to the merits were raised and the
balance of hardships tips sharply in its favor." Johnson Controls,
Inc. v. Phoenix Control Systems, Inc., 886 F.2d 1173, 1174 (9th
Cir.1989).  Because "in a copyright infringement claim, a showing of
a reasonable likelihood of success on the merits raises a presumption
of irreparable harm," id., FormGen need only show a likelihood of
success on the merits to get the preliminary injunction it seeks
(barring the manufacture and distribution of N/I) and to preserve
the preliminary injunction it already won (barring the screen shots
on N/I's packaging).

III

To succeed on the merits of its claim that N/I infringes FormGen's
copyright, FormGen must show (1) ownership of the copyright to
D/N-3D, and (2) copying of protected expression by Micro Star.
See Triad Systems Corp. v. Southeastern Express Co., 64 F.3d 1330,
1335 (9th Cir.1995).  FormGen's copyright registration creates a
presumption of ownership, see id., and we are satisfied that FormGen
has established its ownership of the copyright.  We therefore focus
on the latter issue.

FormGen alleges that its copyright is infringed by Micro Star's
unauthorized commercial exploitation of user-created game levels.
In order to understand FormGen's claims, one must first understand the
way D/N-3D works.  The game consists of three separate components:
the game engine, the source art library and the MAP files.[2] The
game engine is the heart of the computer program; in some sense, it
is the program.  It tells the computer when to read data, save and
load games, play sounds and project images onto the screen.  In order
to create the audiovisual display for a particular level, the game
engine invokes the MAP file that corresponds to that level.  Each MAP
file contains a series of instructions that tell the game engine
(and, through it, the computer) what to put where.  For instance,
the MAP file might say scuba gear goes at the bottom of the screen.
The game engine then goes to the source art library, finds the image of
the scuba gear, and puts it in just the right place on the screen.[3]
The MAP file describes the level in painstaking detail, but it does
not actually contain any of the copyrighted art itself; everything
that appears on the screen actually comes from the art library.
Think of the game's audiovisual display as a paint-by-numbers kit.
The MAP file might tell you to put blue paint in section number 565,
but it doesn't contain any blue paint itself; the blue paint comes
from your palette, which is the low-tech analog of the art library,
while you play the role of the game engine.  When the player selects
one of the N/I levels, the game engine references the N/I MAP files,
but still uses the D/N-3D art library to generate the images that
make up that level.

FormGen points out that a copyright holder enjoys the exclusive right
to prepare derivative works based on D/N-3D.  See 17 U.S.C. s. (1994).
According to FormGen, the audiovisual displays generated when D/N-3D
is run in conjunction with the N/I CD MAP files are derivative works
that infringe this exclusivity.  Is FormGen right? The answer is
not obvious.

The Copyright Act defines a derivative work as

> a work based upon one or more preexisting works, such as a
> translation, musical arrangement, dramatization, fictionalization,
> motion picture version, sound recording, art reproduction, abridgment,
> condensation, or any other form in which a work may be recast,
> transformed, or adapted.  A work consisting of editorial revisions,
> annotations, elaborations, or other modifications which, as a whole,
> represent an original work of authorship, is a "derivative work."

Id. s. 101.  The statutory language is hopelessly overbroad, however,
for "[e]very book in literature, science and art, borrows and must
necessarily borrow, and use much which was well known and used
before." Emerson v. Davies, 8 F. Cas. 615, 619 (C.C.D.Mass.1845)
(No. 4436), quoted in 1 Nimmer on Copyright, s. 3.01, at 3-2 (1997).
To narrow the statute to a manageable level, we have developed certain
criteria a work must satisfy in order to qualify as a derivative work.
One of these is that a derivative work must exist in a "concrete or
permanent form," Galoob, 964 F.2d at 967 (internal quotation marks
omitted), and must substantially incorporate protected material from
the preexisting work, see Litchfield v. Spielberg, 736 F.2d 1352, 1357
(9th Cir.1984).  Micro Star argues that N/I is not a derivative work
because the audiovisual displays generated when D/N-3D is run with
N/I's MAP files are not incorporated in any concrete or permanent form,
and the MAP files do not copy any of D/N-3D's protected expression.
It is mistaken on both counts.

The requirement that a derivative work must assume a concrete or
permanent form was recognized without much discussion in Galoob.
There, we noted that all the Copyright Act's examples of derivative
works took some definite, physical form and concluded that this was
a requirement of the Act.  See Galoob, 964 F.2d at 967-68; see also
Edward G. Black & Michael H. Page, Add-On Infringements, 15 Hastings
Comm/Ent. L.J. 615, 625 (1993) (noting that in Galoob the Ninth
Circuit "re-examined the statutory definition of derivative works
offered in section 101 and found an independent fixation requirement
of sorts built into the statutory definition of derivative works").
Obviously, N/I's MAP files themselves exist in a concrete or permanent
form; they are burned onto a CD-ROM.  See ProCD, Inc. v. Zeidenberg,
86 F.3d 1447, 1453 (7th Cir.1996) (computer files on a CD are fixed
in a tangible medium of expression).  But what about the audiovisual
displays generated when D/N-3D runs the N/I MAP files---i.e., the
actual game level as displayed on the screen? Micro Star argues that,
because the audiovisual displays in Galoob didn't meet the "concrete
or permanent form" requirement, neither do N/I's.

In Galoob, we considered audiovisual displays created using a device
called the Game Genie, which was sold for use with the Nintendo
Entertainment System.  The Game Genie allowed players to alter
individual features of a game, such as a character's strength or
speed, by selectively "blocking the value for a single data byte
sent by the game cartridge to the [Nintendo console] and replacing
it with a new value." Galoob, 964 F.2d at 967.  Players chose which
data value to replace by entering a code; over a billion different
codes were possible.  The Game Genie was dumb; it functioned only as
a window into the computer program, allowing players to temporarily
modify individual aspects of the game.  See Lewis Galoob Toys,
Inc. v. Nintendo of Am., Inc., 780 F.Supp. 1283, 1289 (N.D.Cal.1991).

Nintendo sued, claiming that when the Game Genie modified the game
system's audiovisual display, it created an infringing derivative work.
We rejected this claim because "[a] derivative work must incorporate a
protected work in some concrete or permanent form." Galoob, 964 F.2d
at 967 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The audiovisual displays
generated by combining the Nintendo System with the Game Genie were
not incorporated in any permanent form; when the game was over, they
were gone.  Of course, they could be reconstructed, but only if the
next player chose to reenter the same codes.[4]

Micro Star argues that the MAP files on N/I are a more advanced version
of the Game Genie, replacing old values (the MAP files in the original
game) with new values (N/I's MAP files).  But, whereas the audiovisual
displays created by Game Genie were never recorded in any permanent
form, the audiovisual displays generated by D/N-3D from the N/I MAP
files are in the MAP files themselves.  In Galoob, the audiovisual
display was defined by the original game cartridge, not by the Game
Genie; no one could possibly say that the data values inserted by the
Game Genie described the audiovisual display.  In the present case
the audiovisual display that appears on the computer monitor when a
N/I level is played is described---in exact detail---by a N/I MAP file.

This raises the interesting question whether an exact, down to the last
detail, description of an audiovisual display (and--by definition--we
know that MAP files do describe audiovisual displays down to the
last detail) counts as a permanent or concrete form for purposes of
Galoob.  We see no reason it shouldn't.  What, after all, does sheet
music do but describe in precise detail the way a copyrighted melody
sounds? See 1 William F. Patry, Copyright Law and Practice 168 (1994)
("[A] musical composition may be embodied in sheet music....").  To be
copyrighted, pantomimes and dances may be "described in sufficient
detail to enable the work to be performed from that description."
Id. at 243 (citing Compendium II of Copyright Office Practices s. 463);
see also Horgan v. Macmillan, Inc., 789 F.2d 157, 160 (2d Cir.1986).
Similarly, the N/I MAP files describe the audiovisual display that
is to be generated when the player chooses to play D/N-3D using the
N/I levels.  Because the audiovisual displays assume a concrete or
permanent form in the MAP files, Galoob stands as no bar to finding
that they are derivative works.

In addition, "[a] work will be considered a derivative work only
if it would be considered an infringing work if the material which
it has derived from a preexisting work had been taken without the
consent of a copyright proprietor of such preexisting work." Mirage
Editions v. Albuquerque A.R.T. Co., 856 F.2d 1341, 1343 (quoting
1 Nimmer on Copyright s. 3.01 (1986)) (internal quotation marks
omitted). "To prove infringement, [FormGen] must show that [D/N-3D's
and N/I's audiovisual displays] are substantially similar in both
ideas and expression." Litchfield v. Spielberg, 736 F.2d 1352,
1356 (9th Cir.1984) (emphasis omitted).  Similarity of ideas may be
shown by comparing the objective details of the works: plot, theme,
dialogue, mood, setting, characters, etc.  See id.  Similarity of
expression focuses on the response of the ordinary reasonable person,
and considers the total concept and feel of the works.  See id. at
1356-57.  FormGen will doubtless succeed in making these showings since
the audiovisual displays generated when the player chooses the N/I
levels come entirely out of D/N-3D's source art library.  Cf. Atari,
Inc. v. North Am.  Philips Consumer Elec. Corp., 672 F.2d 607, 620
(7th Cir.1982) (finding two video games substantially similar because
they shared the same "total concept and feel").

Micro Star further argues that the MAP files are not derivative
works because they do not, in fact, incorporate any of D/N-3D's
protected expression.  In particular, Micro Star makes much of the
fact that the N/I MAP files reference the source art library, but do
not actually contain any art files themselves.  Therefore, it claims,
nothing of D/N-3D's is reproduced in the MAP files.  In making this
argument, Micro Star misconstrues the protected work.  The work that
Micro Star infringes is the D/N-3D story itself--a beefy commando type
named Duke who wanders around post-Apocalypse Los Angeles, shooting
Pig Cops with a gun, lobbing hand grenades, searching for medkits
and steroids, using a jetpack to leap over obstacles, blowing up gas
tanks, avoiding radioactive slime.  A copyright owner holds the right
to create sequels, see Trust Co. Bank v. MGM/UA Entertainment Co.,
772 F.2d 740 (11th Cir.1985), and the stories told in the N/ I MAP
files are surely sequels, telling new (though somewhat repetitive)
tales of Duke's fabulous adventures.  A book about Duke Nukem would
infringe for the same reason, even if it contained no pictures.[5]

Micro Star nonetheless claims that its use of D/N-3D's protected
expression falls within the doctrine of fair use, which permits
unauthorized use of copyrighted works "for purposes such as criticism,
comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for
classroom use), scholarship, or research." 17 U.S.C. s. 107; see
Narell v. Freeman, 872 F.2d 907, 913 (9th Cir.1989).  Section 107
instructs courts "determining whether the use made of a work
in any particular case is a fair use" to consider four factors:
(1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether it is
commercial in nature; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3)
the amount and substantiality of the copied material in relation to
the copyrighted work as a whole; and (4) the effect of the use on
the potential market for the copyrighted work. 17 U.S.C. s. 107.

As a preliminary matter, Micro Star asks us to focus on the player's
use of the N/I CD in evaluating the fair use claim, because---according
to Micro Star---the player actually creates the derivative work.
In Galoob, after we assumed for purposes of argument that the Game
Genie did create derivative works, we went on to consider the fair
use defense from the player's point of view.  See Galoob, 964 F.2d
at 970.  But the fair use analysis in Galoob was not necessary and
therefore is clearly dicta.  More significantly, Nintendo alleged
only contributory infringement---that Galoob was helping consumers
create derivative works; FormGen here alleges direct infringement
by Micro Star, because the MAP files encompass new Duke stories,
which are themselves derivative works.

Our examination of the section 107 factors yields straightforward
results.  Micro Star's use of FormGen's protected expression was made
purely for financial gain.  While that does not end our inquiry, see
Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 584, 114 S.Ct. 1164,
127 L.Ed.2d 500 (1994), "every commercial use of copyrighted material
is presumptively an unfair exploitation of the monopoly privilege that
belongs to the owner of the copyright." Sony Corp. of Am. v. Universal
City Studios, Inc., 464 U.S. 417, 451, 104 S.Ct. 774, 78 L.Ed.2d 574
(1984).[6] The Supreme Court has explained that the second factor, the
nature of the copyrighted work, is particularly significant because
"some works are closer to the core of intended copyright protection
than others, with the consequence that fair use is more difficult to
establish when the former works are copied." Campbell, 510 U.S. at
586, 114 S.Ct. 1164.  The fair use defense will be much less likely
to succeed when it is applied to fiction or fantasy creations, as
opposed to factual works such as telephone listings.  See United
Tel. Co. v. Johnson Publ'g Co., 855 F.2d 604, 609 (8th Cir.1988);
see also Stewart v. Abend, 495 U.S. 207, 237, 110 S.Ct. 1750,
109 L.Ed.2d 184 (1990).  Duke Nukem's world is made up of aliens,
radioactive slime and freezer weapons-clearly fantasies, even by
Los Angeles standards.  N/I MAP files "expressly use[ ] the [D/N-3D]
story's unique setting, characters, [and] plot," Stewart, 495 U.S. at
238, 110 S.Ct. 1750; both the quantity and importance of the material
Micro Star used are substantial.  Finally, by selling N/I, Micro Star
"impinged on [FormGen's] ability to market new versions of the [D/N-3D]
story." Stewart, 495 U.S. at 238, 110 S.Ct. 1750; see also Twin Peaks
Productions, Inc. v. Publications Int'l, Ltd., 996 F.2d 1366, 1377
(2d Cir.1993).  Only FormGen has the right to enter that market;
whether it chooses to do so is entirely its business. "[N/I] neither
falls into any of the categories enumerated in section 107 nor meets
the four criteria set forth in section 107." Stewart, 495 U.S. at 237,
110 S.Ct. 1750.  It is not protected by fair use.

Micro Star also argues that it is the beneficiary of the implicit
license FormGen gave to its customers by authorizing them to create new
levels.  Section 204 of the Copyright Act requires the transfer of the
exclusive rights granted to copyright owners (including the right to
prepare derivative works) to be in writing.  See 17 U.S.C. s. 204(a);
Effects Assocs., Inc. v. Cohen, 908 F.2d 555, 556 (9th Cir.1990).
A nonexclusive license may, however, be granted orally or implied
by conduct.  See Effects, 908 F.2d at 558.  Nothing indicates that
FormGen granted Micro Star any written license at all; nor is there
evidence of a nonexclusive oral license.  The only written license
FormGen conceivably granted was to players who designed their own
new levels, but that license contains a significant limitation: Any
new levels the players create "must be offered [to others] solely
for free." The parties dispute whether the license is binding, but
it doesn't matter.  If the license is valid, it clearly prohibits
commercial distribution of levels; if it doesn't, FormGen hasn't
granted any written licenses at all.[7]

In case FormGen didn't license away its rights, Micro Star argues that,
by providing the Build Editor and encouraging players to create their
own levels, FormGen abandoned all rights to its protected expression.
It is well settled that rights gained under the Copyright Act may
be abandoned.  But abandonment of a right must be manifested by some
overt act indicating an intention to abandon that right.  See Hampton
v. Paramount Pictures Corp., 279 F.2d 100, 104 (9th Cir.1960).
Given that it overtly encouraged players to make and freely distribute
new levels, FormGen may indeed have abandoned its exclusive right to
do the same.  But abandoning some rights is not the same as abandoning
all rights, and FormGen never overtly abandoned its rights to profit
commercially from new levels.  Indeed, FormGen warned players not
to distribute the levels commercially and has actively enforced that
limitation by bringing suits such as this one.

IV

Because FormGen will likely succeed at trial in proving that Micro
Star has infringed its copyright, we reverse the district court's
order denying a preliminary injunction and remand for entry of such
an injunction.  Of course, we affirm the grant of the preliminary
injunction barring Micro Star from selling N/I in boxes covered with
screen shots of the game.8

AFFIRMED in part, REVERSED in part, and REMANDED.  Micro Star to bear
costs of both appeals.

* Judge Thompson was drawn to replace Judge Floyd Gibson who became
unavailable after the case was submitted

[1] This form of play was pioneered by a company called id Software
with its classic Wolfenstein 3D character

[2] So-called because the files all end with the extension ".MAP".
Also, no doubt, because they contain the layout for the various levels

[3] Actually, this is all a bit metaphorical.  Computer programs
don't actually go anywhere or fetch anything.  Rather, the game engine
receives the player's instruction as to which game level to select and
instructs the processor to access the MAP file corresponding to that
level.  The MAP file, in turn, consists of a series of instructions
indicating which art images go where.  When the MAP file calls for a
particular art image, the game engine tells the processor to access
the art library for instructions on how each pixel on the screen must
be colored in order to paint that image

[4] A low-tech example might aid understanding.  Imagine a product
called the Pink Screener, which consists of a big piece of pink
cellophane stretched over a frame.  When put in front of a television,
it makes everything on the screen look pinker.  Someone who manages to
record the programs with this pink cast (maybe by filming the screen)
would have created an infringing derivative work.  But the audiovisual
display observed by a person watching television through the Pink
Screener is not a derivative work because it does not incorporate the
modified image in any permanent or concrete form.  The Game Genie might
be described as a fancy Pink Screener for video games, changing a value
of the game as perceived by the current player, but never incorporating
the new audiovisual display into a permanent or concrete form

[5] We note that the N/I MAP files can only be used with D/N-3D.
If another game could use the MAP files to tell the story of a mousy
fellow who travels through a beige maze, killing vicious saltshakers
with paper-clips, then the MAP files would not incorporate the
protected expression of D/N-3D because they would not be telling a
D/N-3D story

[6] Of course, transformative works have greater recourse to the
fair use defense as they "lie at the heart of the fair use doctrine's
guarantee of breathing space within the confines of copyright ... and
the more transformative the new work, the less will be the significance
of other factors, like commercialism, that may weigh against a finding
of fair use." Campbell, 510 U.S. at 579, 114 S.Ct. 1164 (citations
omitted).  N/I can hardly be described as transformative; anything but

[7] We would have no reason to sever the limitation from the license;
the limitation is plainly stated in the User License, unambiguous,
and not the least bit unreasonable.  Indeed, it is precisely the sort
of term we would expect to see in such a license

[8] Micro Star raises various other claims alleging copyright misuse
and abuse of the discovery process.  However, nothing indicates that
FormGen abused its copyright.  See Triad Systems Corp. v. Southeastern
Express Co., 64 F.3d 1330, 1337 (9th Cir.1995).  And we are at a loss
to understand why Micro Star complains about the discovery process;
certainly the district court did not abuse its discretion.  See Sopcak
v. Northern Mountain Helicopter Serv., 52 F.3d 817, 819 (9th Cir.1995)
