United States Court of Appeals, Eleventh Circuit.

744 F.2d 1490 (11th Cir. 1984)

PACIFIC AND SOUTHERN COMPANY, INC., D/B/A WXIA-TV, PLAINTIFF-APPELLEE,
CROSS-APPELLANT,
V.
CAROL DUNCAN, D/B/A TV NEWS CLIPS, DEFENDANT-APPELLANT, CROSS-APPELLEE.

JOHNSON, Circuit Judge:

Pacific and Southern Company, the owner of a television station,
charges that Carol Duncan, d/b/a TV News Clips, has infringed its
copyright by videotaping its news broadcasts and selling the tapes
to the subjects of the news reports.  We hold that the appellant has
violated the copyright laws because her activities do not constitute
"fair use" of the material.  We also conclude that the television
station is entitled to a permanent injunction preventing the appellant
from continuing to infringe its copyright.  Accordingly, we affirm
in part and reverse in part.

I. Facts

Pacific and Southern Company does business as WXIA-TV, a television
station in Atlanta, Georgia.  It broadcasts four local news programs
each day and places a notice of copyright at the end of each newscast.
A program consists of self-contained news stories originating
outside the studio and linked together by live commentary from the
anchor persons, along with weather reports and shorter news reports
originating from the studio itself.  WXIA records the entire program
on videotape and audiotape.  It retains a written transcript of the
program for a year and the audiotape for an indefinite period of time;
it also maintains videotape copies of all the news stories taped
before broadcast and stories originating live from a location outside
the studio. 1The station erases the videotape of the entire program
after seven days, a practice that destroys any record of the visual
element of segments of the show broadcast live from within the studio.

WXIA does not currently market videotape copies of its news stories.
Nevertheless, some people ask the station for a chance to view a tape
at the station or to purchase a copy for personal use.  WXIA has always
honored requests to view tapes and usually allows persons to buy the
tapes they want.[1]  The revenue from tape sales is a small portion of
WXIA's total profits.

Carol Duncan operates a business known as TV News Clips, a commercial
enterprise belonging to a nationwide association of news clipping
organizations.[2]  TV News Clips videotapes television news
programs, identifies the persons and organizations covered by the
news reports, and tries to sell them copies of the relevant portion
of the newscast.[3]  It does not seek the permission of WXIA or
any other broadcaster before selling the tapes, nor does it place a
notice of copyright on the tapes.  A label on each tape does say,
however, that it is "for personal use only not for rebroadcast."
TV News Clips erases all tapes after one month.

This case began when TV News Clips sold a copy of a news feature to
Floyd Junior College, the subject of a story aired by WXIA on March
11, 1981.  WXIA obtained the tape purchased by Floyd Junior College,
registered its copyright,[4] and brought this action to obtain damages
for the infringement of its copyright and an injunction preventing
unauthorized copying and sales of its news program.  The district
court, 572 F. Supp. 1186, found that the news feature was protected
by the copyright laws and that TV News Clips had not made "fair use"
of the material.  It rejected the fair use defense without reaching
the four factors listed in 17 U.S.C.A. s. 107 (1977), because TV News
Clips had not met its threshold burden of showing that its activity
served a purpose such as "criticism, comment, news reporting,
teaching ... scholarship, or research," categories listed in the
preamble to Section 107.  Yet despite finding that TV News Clips
had clearly violated WXIA's copyright, the district court denied
the request for an injunction for three reasons.  First, the sales
did not seriously threaten WXIA's creativity, so an injunction would
not significantly further the main objective of the copyright laws,
fostering creativity.  Second, the court feared that an injunction
would threaten First Amendment values served by the increased public
availability of the news made possible by TV News Clips.  Finally,
the court found that WXIA had abandoned its copyright on several
portions of the newscasts; it declined to formulate a decree that
would distinguish between the abandoned and unabandoned portions.

II. "Fair Use" Defense to Statutory Liability

The news feature broadcast by WXIA undoubtedly falls within the
protection of the copyright laws.  The editorial judgment used to
present effectively the events covered by the broadcast made it an
"original" work of authorship, Wainwright Securities, Inc. v. Wall
Street Transcript Corp., 558 F.2d 91, 95 (2d Cir. 1977), cert. denied,
434 U.S. 1014, 98 S.Ct. 730, 54 L.Ed.2d 759 (1978), and the feature
became "fixed" in a tangible medium when it was recorded at the time of
transmission.[5]  Thus, it met the requirements of 17 U.S.C.A. s. 102
(1977).  The fact that the infringing tape is the only exact copy of
the transmission still in existence does not nullify the copyright.
The statute requires only that the original work be "fixed" for a
period of "more than transitory duration," not for the entire term
of the copyright. 17 U.S.C.A. ss. 101, 102 (1977).

A copyright grants to the owner several exclusive rights, including
the right to reproduce the copyrighted work and to distribute
copies to the public. 6The courts have, however, developed over the
years the concept of "fair use" to describe some limited and useful
forms of copying and distribution that are tolerated as exceptions
to copyright protection.[6]  The 1976 Copyright Act codified this
judicial doctrine at 17 U.S.C.A. s. 107 (1977) without significantly
altering it.  The statute divides into a "preamble" and a list of
factors to consider during the search for fair use:

[T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by
reproduction in copies ... for purposes such as criticism, comment,
news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom
use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of copyright.
In determining whether the use made of a work in any particular case
is a fair use the factors to be considered shall include ---

(1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use
is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes;

(2) the nature of the copyrighted work;

(3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to
the copyrighted work as a whole; and

(4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of
the copyrighted work.

17 U.S.C.A. s. 107 (1977).

TV News Clips argued in the district court that its use of the news
broadcast was a fair use of the material because it served an important
societal interest in full access to the news.  The court rejected
the fair use defense without considering the four statutory factors
because TV News Clips did not copy and distribute the material for
purposes such as the ones listed in the preamble.  The district court
reasoned that since TV News Clips' use was not "inherently productive
or creative," like each of the preamble uses, analysis of the four
factors was unnecessary.

We agree with TV News Clips that the district court should have
considered the four factors set out in the statute.  The statute uses
mandatory language to the effect that in a fair use determination,
the "factors to be considered _shall_ include" (emphasis added) the
four listed.[7]  The preamble merely illustrates the sorts of uses
likely to qualify as fair uses under the four listed factors.

The approach taken by the district court impedes the ability of the
fair use doctrine to function as a "rule of reason." 3Fair use allows
a court to resolve tensions between the ends of copyright law, public
enjoyment of creative works, and the means chosen under copyright law,
the conferral of economic benefits upon creators of original works.
Where strict enforcement of the rights of a copyright holder under 17
U.S.C.A. s. 106 (1977) would conflict with the purpose of copyright
law or with some other important societal value, courts should be free
to fashion an appropriate fair use exemption.  The district court
fashioned a per se rule that a use must be inherently productive
or creative before it can be a fair use, but a doctrine meant to
resolve unforeseen conflicts of values should not turn on such a
narrow inquiry.  The Supreme Court, in its recent fair use decision
in Sony Corp. v. Universal City Studios, ___ U.S. ___, 104 S.Ct. 774,
78 L.Ed.2d 574 (1984), did not conduct any preliminary tests before
analyzing the four statutory factors.  It expressly refused to look
to productivity alone in determining what constituted a fair use.
Id. at n. 40.  Hence, the Supreme Court's recent application of the
doctrine, as well as the traditional purpose of fair use, points out
the error of the district court's reasoning.

Despite the district court's erroneous interpretation of the law,
we need not remand this case for further fact finding. 1The district
court resolved all the issues of fact necessary for us to conclude
as a matter of law that TV News Clips' activities do not qualify
as a fair use of the copyrighted work.  See Triangle Publications,
Inc. v. Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc., 626 F.2d 1171, 1175 (5th
Cir. 1980) (analyzing usage under the four statutory factors where
district court had made findings under an erroneous view of controlling
legal principles).[8]

The purpose and character of TV News Clips' use of WXIA's work
heavily influences our decision in this case.  TV News Clips copies
and distributes the broadcast for unabashedly commercial reasons
despite the fact that its customers buy the tapes for personal use.
The district court characterized TV News Clips as a "full-fledged
commercial operation." 572 F. Supp. at 1189 n. 1. 1TV News Clips denies
that its activities have a commercial purpose; instead, it says that
its purpose is "private news reporting," meant to provide the public
with a record of news reports. 3Of course, every commercial exchange
of goods and services involves both the giving of the good or service
and the taking of the purchase price.  The fact that TV News Clips
focuses on the giving rather than the taking cannot hide the fact
that profit is its primary motive for making the exchange.

2This commercial nature of the use militates quite strongly against a
finding of fair use, for the Supreme Court emphasized in Sony, supra,
that a commercial purpose makes copying onto a videotape cassette
"presumptively unfair." 104 S.Ct. at 792. 1Even before the Supreme
Court's decision, many federal courts had found the commercial nature
of a use especially significant, if not determinative.  See MCA,
Inc. v. Wilson, 677 F.2d 180 (2d Cir. 1981); Triangle Publications,
Inc. v. Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc., supra, at 1175-76; Association
of American Medical Colleges v. Mikaelian, 571 F. Supp. 144, 153
(E.D.Pa. 1983) (Commercial purpose is not determinative, but "a
court should not strain to apply the fair use defense when it is
being invoked by a profit-making defendant").

We also note that TV News Clips' use is neither productive nor
creative in any way.  It does not analyze the broadcast or improve
it at all.  Indeed, WXIA expressed concern over the technical
inferiority of the tapes.  TV News Clips only copies and sells.
As the uses listed in the preamble to Section 107 indicate, fair
uses are those that contribute in some way to the public welfare.
Until recently a few courts had automatically considered unproductive
or uncreative uses to be unfair.  Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Sony
Corp. of America, 659 F.2d 963 (9th Cir. 1981), rev'd, ___ U.S. ___,
104 S.Ct. 774, 78 L.Ed.2d 574 (1984); Rubin v. Boston Magazine Co.,
645 F.2d 80 (1st Cir. 1981); Dow Jones Co., Inc. v. Board of Trade,
546 F. Supp. 113 (S.D.N.Y. 1982).  Although the Supreme Court has
rejected "productive use" as an absolute prerequisite to a defense of
fair use, it has recognized that the distinction between productive
and unproductive uses could be "helpful in calibrating the balance."
Sony, 104 S.Ct. 795, n. 40.  The unproductive nature of TV News Clips'
use affects the balance in this case.

2The fourth fair use factor, the effect on the potential market for
the work, is closely related to the first.  By examining the effect
of a use, a reviewing court can measure the success of the original
purpose and single out those purposes that most directly threaten
the incentives for creativity which the copyright tries to protect.
Some commercial purposes, for example, might not threaten the
incentives because the user profits from an activity that the owner
could not possibly take advantage of.  See Triangle Publications,
Inc. v. Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc., supra. 6But in this case,
TV News Clips uses the broadcasts for a purpose that WXIA might use
for its own benefit.  The fact that WXIA does not actively market
copies of the news programs does not matter, for Section 107 looks
to the "potential market" in analyzing the effects of an alleged
infringement.  Copyrights protect owners who immediately market a work
no more stringently than owners who delay before entering the market.
TV News Clips sells a significant number of copies that WXIA could
itself sell if it so desired; therefore, TV News Clips competes
with WXIA in a potential market and thereby injures the television
station. 1This evidence is reinforced by a presumption established
in Sony that a commercial use naturally produces harmful effects. 104
S.Ct. at 793.  The actual harmful effect, along with the presumption,
undermines any fair use defense.

The third factor directs our attention to the amount and substantiality
of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole.
The Floyd Junior College story stands alone as a coherent narrative,
and WXIA saves it as a distinct unit for future reference apart from
the rest of the March 11 broadcast.  The Register of Copyrights issued
a certificate of copyright for the Floyd Junior College segment and
for the entire broadcast.  Moreover, the district court found that
WXIA had properly registered the story and the whole broadcast.[9]
We agree with the district court that the feature stands alone as a
copyrighted work in this case.[10]  Hence, TV News Clips copied an
entire work.  And even if the story could not stand independent of
the entire newscast, we could not ignore the fact that TV News Clips
tapes virtually all of the broadcast on a daily basis.  By bringing
a suit for injunctive relief as well as damages, WXIA is challenging
the entire practice of copying and selling news stories, not just the
sale of the Floyd Junior College story.[11]  Because TV News Clips
uses virtually all of a copyrighted work, the fair use defense drifts
even further out of its reach.  See Marcus v. Rowley, 695 F.2d 1171
(9th Cir. 1983).

Finally, the second factor calls on us to analyze the nature of the
copyrighted work.  This is the only factor that arguably works in
favor of TV News Clips. 1The importance to society of the news could
affect the definition of a fair use for a number of reasons.[12]
But the courts should also take care not to discourage authors
from addressing important topics for fear of losing their copyright
protections.  The necessarily limited impact of this second factor,
along with the commercial and unproductive purpose of the use, the
injury to the potential market, and the substantial amount of copying,
leads us to conclude that TV News Clips has not made fair use of the
protected work.

TV News Clips urges us to consider a fifth factor in evaluating its
claim of fair use.  It points to WXIA's status as a governmental
licensee, with a duty "to provide public access to newscasts,"
and argues that the fair use doctrine should be employed here to
prevent WXIA from using the copyright laws to restrict public access
in violation of its duties as a government licensee.  WXIA is correct
in contending that its duties as a public trustee do not go as far
as TV News Clips claims.  The cases cited by the appellant, Richmond
Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia, 448 U.S. 555, 100 S.Ct. 2814, 65 L.Ed.2d
973 (1980); Columbia Broadcasting System v. Democratic National
Committee, 412 U.S. 94, 93 S.Ct. 2080, 36 L.Ed.2d 772 (1973); Red
Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367, 89 S.Ct. 1794, 23 L.Ed.2d
371 (1969); and Muir v. Alabama Educational Television Commission,
656 F.2d 1012, 1017 (5th Cir. 1981), on rehearing, 688 F.2d 1033,
cert. denied, 460 U.S. 1023, 103 S.Ct. 1274, 75 L.Ed.2d 495 (1983),
indicate, if only by implication, that broadcast licensees and the
press generally have a duty to provide public service.  That duty
finds at least partial expression in the fair use doctrine.  But it
is a long way from this proposition to TV News Clips' position that a
licensee violates the public trust by enforcing its copyright against
persons other than members of the press.  WXIA has chosen to produce
a news program and allows anyone interested to view the program after
its broadcast.  Certainly it has fulfilled its public obligations by
doing this much.  Therefore, WXIA's status as a public trustee does
not change our evaluation of the fair use claim.

III. Constitutional Limits on Statutory Liability

The appellant claims that even if its fair use defense fails, the First
Amendment protects its activity.  WXIA, when it enforces the copyright,
allegedly violates the First Amendment in two different ways.  First,
it destroys and suppresses evidence of possible use in a defamation
action against itself, and second, it denies the public its right of
access to broadcast material.  An effort to discourage defamation
suits might be an abuse of the copyright laws and a violation of
the First Amendment, but that possibility is entirely imaginary in
this case.  As for the right of public access, we acknowledge that
the public has a limited interest in "making television broadcasting
more available."  Sony, supra, 104 S.Ct. at 795.  This public interest
might be threatened if WXIA absolutely refused to allow the public to
view recordings or scripts of its broadcasts.  But as the Supreme Court
made clear in Sony, the public interest in broadcast availability does
not protect every activity that exposes more viewers to a broadcast.
Furthermore, TV News Clips only increases access in a limited way
by selling to a small group of customers, some of whom would buy
a tape from WXIA anyway.  Because the public already has access to
this material and TV News Clips does not offer any access that WXIA
could not provide, TV News Clips' activities fall well beyond whatever
protections might be available to further this public access interest.
The First Amendment does not conflict with WXIA's effort to enforce
its copyright in this case.

Finally, TV News Clips argues that every copyright must further the
ends of the Copyright Clause of the Constitution.  WXIA's copyright,
TV News Clips says, does not further those ends and should not
be enforced, because WXIA systematically destroys its broadcast
videotapes and deprives the public of the benefits of its creative
efforts.[13]  We agree that the Constitution allows Congress to create
copyright laws only if they benefit society as a whole rather than
authors alone.  That is what the Congress has done.[14]  But this
does not mean that every copyright holder must offer benefits to
society, for the copyright is an incentive rather than a command.
And, a fortiori, a copyright holder need not provide the most complete
public access possible.  WXIA provides complete access for seven days
and permanent access to everything except the visual images broadcast
live from within the studio.  The public benefits from this creative
work; therefore, enforcing the copyright statute in this case does
not violate the Copyright Clause.

IV. Remedy

WXIA has proven that TV News Clips infringed its copyright.
The district court found that TV News Clips had regularly copied the
newscast and sold the tapes, and would continue to do so.[15]  Unless
it can obtain an injunction, WXIA can only enforce its copyrights
against TV News Clips by finding out which stories have been copied
and sold, registering those stories, and bringing many different
infringement actions against TV News Clips.  Each infringement action
would yield a rather small damage recovery.[16]  This is a classic
case, then, of a past infringement and a substantial likelihood
of future infringements which would normally entitle the copyright
holder to a permanent injunction against the infringer pursuant to
17 U.S.C.A. s.  502(a) (1977).  See Milene Music, Inc. v. Gotauco,
551 F. Supp. 1288 (D.R.I. 1982); 3 Nimmer on Copyright s. 13.05[B]
(1983).  The question is whether the district court abused its
discretion in refusing to issue the injunction.[17]  Because none
of the three grounds relied upon by the court for denying injunctive
relief are legally sufficient to support the decision, we hold that
the court did abuse its discretion.

The court began its discussion by noting that an injunction
would not greatly further the ends of the copyright laws, because
the post-broadcast market is relatively unimportant to WXIA as a
creative incentive.  We agree but find that fact standing alone to be
irrelevant.  The disincentive to creativity caused by the infringement
would be just as small if WXIA were to wait and bring infringement
actions in the future.  The weakness of WXIA's interest in stopping
this infringement has no bearing on the choice between present
injunctive relief and future damage relief unless some independent
consideration weighs against the use of an injunction in this case.

The "modest" furtherance of First Amendment rights accomplished by
TV News Clips, the second ground relied upon by the court, does not
provide any such independent reason to disfavor an injunction.  It is
undoubtedly true that TV News Clips (like any copyright infringer)
increases public access to the copyrighted work.  But the First
Amendment issue of public access was duly considered when resolving
the liability issue.  If the First Amendment would not prevent WXIA
from recovering for individual infringements in the future, it should
not bar an injunction in the present. 1The scope of liability affects
First Amendment interests, but the choice of the form of relief in
this case does not.

Finally, the district court found injunctive relief inappropriate
because WXIA regularly abandons the copyright on a portion of
its program when it erases the videotape of the entire broadcast.
Certainly the erasure shows that WXIA did not desire to distribute
post-broadcast copies of parts of the program.  Failure to distribute a
work does not mean, however, that an owner intends to allow others to
use the work, and it is questionable whether WXIA had such an intent.
Destroying the only known copy of a work would seem to be the best
way to assure that it will not be used by another.  Still, we do not
say that destruction of the only copy of a work can never establish
intent to abandon.  We defer to the trial court's factual finding
that WXIA intended to abandon portions of its program.

Nevertheless, WXIA erased only a small portion of its broadcast.
The entire audiotape still survives, along with many portions of
the videotape.  The district court, while recognizing this fact,
declined to issue an injunction against the use of segments of the
news program not erased by WXIA.  It said that "the precise wording
of an appropriately limited decree is unapparent."  The fact that a
court must make some difficult judgments should not prevent it from
effectuating established legal rights.  Moreover, the clear-cut test
used by the district court to find an intent to abandon the copyright
(destruction of the only copy) should make the formulation of the
decree more manageable.

Thus, the trial court relied on irrelevant and insufficient grounds
in its refusal to grant injunctive relief.  It correctly found that
TV News Clips had infringed the copyright of WXIA but abused its
discretion by refusing to grant injunctive relief.  Accordingly,
the judgment is AFFIRMED IN PART, REVERSED IN PART, and REMANDED for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

Footnotes

[1]: The tapes cost one hundred dollars.  WXIA will not sell tapes to
political candidates because the sale could appear to be an endorsement
or other show of support for the candidate.  Out of a similar concern
over favoritism, the station asks for a subpoena before selling a
tape that will be used in litigation.

[2]: TV News Clips belongs to the International Association of
Broadcast Monitors, an organization of 20 to 30 members.  Ms. Duncan
is a past president of the association.

[3]: The customers pay $65 for an initial purchase and $25 for
subsequent purchases.

[4]: WXIA does not normally register the copyright for its news
programs.

[5]: The feature in this case was prerecorded, but the final product
broadcast by WXIA included a live introduction by the anchor person
and graphics (stating the reporter's name and location) superimposed
over the pretaped version.

[6]: TV News Clips analogizes itself to a newspaper clipping service or
an archive, both of which qualify for an exemption apart from the fair
use doctrine.  The statute defines an archive with some precision,
and TV News Clips does not match the description. 17 U.S.C.A. s.
108 (1977). 1Likewise, it cannot be considered a newspaper clipping
service because it does not purchase the copy that it sells to its
clients. 17 U.S.C.A. s. 109 (1977).

[7]: As a result, the House Committee on the Judiciary may have
overstated its intention to leave the doctrine of fair use unchanged,
because the statute clearly offers new guidance for courts considering
fair use defenses.  It establishes a minimum number of inquiries that
a court must carry out, even if it leaves to the courts how to assign
relative weights to each factor and how to supplement the first four
factors.  See House Report No. 94-1476, U.S.Code-Cong. Ad. News 1976,
p. 5659.

[8]: Fair use is probably best characterized as a mixed question
of law and fact that can be decided by an appellate court if the
trial court has found facts sufficient to evaluate each of the four
statutory factors.  Cf. Meeropol v. Nizer, 560 F.2d 1061, 1070 (2d
Cir. 1977) (trial court erroneously determined fair use as a matter of
law before allowing case to go to jury because there were no factual
findings regarding first or fourth statutory factors).

[9]: TV News Clips contends that the district court erred in its
finding that WXIA had properly registered the Floyd Junior College
story because WXIA had deposited, pursuant to 17 U.S.C.A. s. 408(b)
(1977), the copy made by News Clips.  This invalidated the
registration, it argues, because the copy was not fixed "under
authority of the author."  It is true that a work must be fixed under
authority of the author in order for the protections of copyright to
take effect. 17 U.S.C.A. s. 101 (1977).  But the tape that "fixes" a
broadcast need not be the same tape that is deposited for registration.

[10]: This case differs from Triangle Publications,
Inc. v. Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc., supra, where the court held
that the cover of a magazine was not a copyrighted work apart from
the whole magazine.  There was no evidence in that case that the cover
had been registered apart from the magazine or that they were stored
or used separately.

[11]: In addition, we mention that a small portion of a work may
be especially significant.  The single story involving a particular
subject is by far the most significant portion of the newscast for
that potential customer.

[12]: The Supreme Court has mentioned that use of a news program may
give rise to a fair use defense more easily than use of a full-length
motion picture.  Sony, supra, 104 S.Ct. at 795, n. 40.  The Court
does not fully explain this distinction, but the context suggests
that the large secondary market for motion picture copies makes fair
use less appropriate in that context.  As discussion of the fourth
factor revealed, significant commercial harm is present in this case.
Another court found that the great public interest in the contents of
a book (the memoirs of Gerald Ford) called for application of the fair
use doctrine.  Harper Row, Publishers, Inc. v. National Enterprises,
723 F.2d 195 (2d Cir. 1983).  But the Harper Row court also relied on
other factors, particularly the fact that the alleged infringer used
material from the book that was for the most part not copyrightable
at all.  Furthermore, the public interest in the average news story
is far less than the interest in presidential memoirs.

[13]: This alleged conflict between the ends of copyright law and
its application in a particular case should be analyzed under the
fair use rubric.  We will, however, defer to TV News Clips' desire
to treat this as a separate defense just as we did with regard to
its First Amendment arguments, for our conclusion would be the same
under either approach.

[14]: It has created a structure that encourages creativity and public
enjoyment of that creativity by giving authors the exclusive rights
to profit from their works in certain ways.  Since authors most often
profit by distributing their works to the public, society usually
benefits.  Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders, Inc. v. Scoreboard Posters,
Inc., 600 F.2d 1184 (5th Cir. 1979).  Where the First Amendment
removes obstacles to the free flow of ideas, copyright law adds
positive incentives to encourage the flow.

[15]: Indeed, the court considered future sales by TV News Clips to
be a virtual certainty and a "modest social benefit."  572 F. Supp. at
1196.

[16]: The award in this case was $35.

[17]: TV News Clips insists that WXIA is not legally entitled to an
injunction, because it seeks an injunction against the infringement
of works that have not been created (future newscasts) rather than
an injunction applicable only to the March 11 program.  The statute
itself does not impose such a requirement, for it empowers district
courts to issue injunctions "on such terms as it may deem reasonable
to prevent or restrain infringement of a copyright." 17 U.S.C.A. s.
502(a) (1977).  The appellant bases its argument on the requirement
that an author register a work before instituting an infringement
action. 17 U.S.C.A. s. 411 (1977).  An injunction against the use of
unregistered works would bypass this requirement.

The district court in this case had the power to issue such an
injunction because the statute provides for injunctions to prevent
infringement of "_a_ copyright" (emphasis added), not necessarily
the registered copyright that gave rise to the infringement action.
The opposite result would be especially unjust in a case such as
this one in which the registered work and the future works are so
closely related, part of a series of original works created with
predictable regularity and similar format and function.  To refuse
injunctive relief under these conditions would render meaningless the
fact that registration is "not a condition of copyright protection."
17 U.S.C.A. s. 408(a) (1977).
